you know I did a study at Harvard that
we never published when piercing and
tattooing became common in the 1990s I
did a study with a fellow
psychopathologist looking at whether the
proclivity to tattoo and Pierce which
was still kind of countercultural at the
time was an indication of
Psychopathology and we found out that it
wasn't it was just associated with the
trade openness it was just an expression
of
creativity the blue-haired woke type
that hair coloring with the pierc
that's a reflection of openness and the
patholog pathological ideology of the
anti-normative
radicals does also appeal to creative
young people because they actually do
have fluid identities and they don't fit
in and so that's another place where the
oversimplifying LIE finds a ready
audience so of course if you're a
creative young person you're going to
feel that you're at odd with the
heteronormative CIS patriarchy because
you
are right now that doesn't mean that you
shouldn't be grateful for the fact that
you're not scrabbling around in the dirt
like a peasant from the 13th century but
unless someone has sat you down
carefully and explain that to you and
that's certainly not going to happen in
the education system you're just going
to feel that the world is a RAID against
someone with your generative talents
which of course it is because
normal
society never incorporates the creative
because it's a one siiz fits all
solution I should add um that children
are easier targets for obvious reasons
they just don't have a model of the
world they haven't they have no way of
orienting orienting themselves correctly
in the world they're just too young they
don't have the experience they're
supposed to have adults in their lives
that help with that but I will also add
that especially in in the domain of
queer Theory the abuse is intentional uh
one of the people we quote in the book
Kevin kumashiro he's a he's one of these
queer Educators and I I I should before
I continue with that I should Define
what I mean by queer because that's
something people immediately get wrong
our definition we use in the book we use
the word over 1300 times it may be a
Guinness record our definition we take
directly from David Halprin in his 1995
book Michelle or St Fuko towards a gay
geography where he's essentially trying
to make Michelle Fuko a gay Saint and in
his book he says that would that would
be the Michelle Fuko who uh had a
proclivity to take young boys into
graveyards and have his hedonistic way
with them that Saint Fuko gentleman who
spent his who bent his IQ of 180 his
entire life in in service of justifying
the perversions that he was AB
absolutely unable to control even when
he had AIDS even when he knew it that
Fuko that Fuko St M that Fuko oh yeah so
I just wanted to make sure that we were
talking about the same person that's the
same Fuko who is the most cited scholar
in the world that's right right that
Michelle Fuko okay well good so we're
definitely talking about the same
Stellar guy yeah so the definition we
use it's that it's that Fuko is David
halpin's and and it is the definition
that all of queer Theory recognizes even
though when you read their papers they
say it escapes definition it can't be
categorized of course that's what
they're going to say because that's the
whole program but David Halprin says
that queer is defined in this way he
says unlike gay
identity queer identity need not be
grounded in any positive truth or in any
stable reality queer acquires its its
meaning from its oppositional relation
to the norm queer is by definition
whatever is at odds with the normal the
legitimate the dominant there is nothing
in particular to which it necessarily
refers it is an identity without an
Essence that's the definition we're
going with it has essentially nothing to
do with being it's right away unlike gay
nothing to do with it it's actually
antithetical towards it because these
anti sure sure Gay is a stable identity
it's stable you lose the Revolutionary
potential if you happen to be gay and
you're living a great life and you're
happy you fit into a well-functioning
prosperous Society they've lost the
resentment you're not going to work get
out of here so before I before I
continue I just wanted to to clarify
that point because that's a point that
requires clarification yeah um yeah yeah
that's crucial because otherwise it
sound it's easy for people to presume
that queer is just a minor variant of
gay no and that definition well that's
if that definition doesn't send chills
down your spine you're dangerously naive
because that's a that's an identity
that's predicated on the negation of
identity
as such both psychologically and
socially that also means technically
that it's a and this is relevant to the
observations by Jonathan height and
others that radical that the radical
Progressive agenda is associated with a
an a market increase in mental illness
an unstable identity Dooms you to a dir
of positive emotion that's hopelessness
and an excess of negative emotion that's
anxiety like an unstable identity a an
unstable self-questioning antithetical
identity is indistinguishable from
psychological suffering and social
disunity they're the same thing right so
it's a celebration of well there's your
postmodernism for you that would be a
fractionation of the meta narrative all
the way down to the microscopic nothing
unifies anything right and it's not even
I I would even J brutal I would even add
that it's it's not not an identity at
all because there's no essential quality
to it what it is is it's a spiritual
position it's a stance you take it's an
orientation in the world against
anything considered normal anything
considered legitimate and what makes the
teaching of this to children I I I I
wanted to to add to this it's not just
that kids are to easier to brainwash
let's say it's that the queer theorists
are very specific that their program is
abusive to children they've got a
program that's
designed to pull social and emotional
levers to make children accept this so
the the person I was talking about
earlier Kevin kumashiro queer activist
he wrote A Few papers that will uh just
floor you his paper against repetition
was the reason I wrote this book I read
that paper and I said okay that's it now
this is the book to write people have to
know he said that Educators have a
responsibility to pull children into
crisis a responsibility so that that
crisis can be resolved productively and
what he means by this from within the
context of queer theory is that queer
Theory argues that kids want to be
normal of course they do and if they're
Desiring to be normal and to plug into a
society that's working a
well-functioning
society then they can't experience the
queer the definition that we just
discussed they can't experience it if
that's what they're Desiring so you need
to interrupt that desire to fit in with
something and that something is Crisis
what he says
is one of the ways you do this is you
explain to kids that they may hold
racist beliefs that they weren't aware
of you might hold homophobic beliefs
that you weren't aware of and then
you've got this special knowledge that's
coming from the queer theorist about all
of the isms and phobias that no one can
perceive but them just like a cult Guru
or a cult leader they've got this
Gnostic Insight this special knowledge
that you've need to be initiated into
and they drive COG nitive dissonance
into the child they the technical term
is trauma bonding they traumatize the
child you're a racist you don't know it
you're a sexist you don't know it the
kid wants to resolve this trauma and
then to Kevin kishiro's words we help
them resolve it productively so we help
use that resolve it well re resolve it
in what okay I I want to ask you that
let Let Me Take A Part of a couple of
things that you said okay so the first
thing that we should point out is
that there is no difference between
being socialized and being normal and
fitting in those are the same thing
right and so the technical way of
thinking about that is that well if
you're socialized you can play a game
with other people th those those
concepts are
indistinguishable now if you can play a
game with other people well first of all
that means you can play a game and it
also means you can play and it means
that other people can stand you and that
you can inter interact with them
peacefully when you cooperate and when
you compete and that you can organize
yourselves with others to pursue a joint
Aim so that's all in the notion of play
okay well of course you have to be
normal and fit in
because if you all are playing a game
you all follow the same rules because
otherwise you're not all playing the
same game okay now it's obviously the
case and this would be the grain of
Truth is that you can
subjugate that creative Essence that
might enable you to discover a better
game if you're too much of a conformist
but it's still the case that your
primary goal as a child from the age of
two to 18 is fitting
in that's what your goal is right
because that's what it means to be
socialized now you can understand why
that would great against the conscience
of someone whose fundamental orientation
was cre ative because they're going to
be the ones that pay the biggest
psychological price for that in a sense
but at least they'll be able to play
games with others to cooperate to
compete to take Aim with other people
and to have friends like that's not
nothing plus it's also what social
stability itself depends on right so we
have to be very clear about what it is
that's being critiqued here they're
actually
critiquing socialized maturity itself
right right okay now the the the Curious
Thing would be though okay so now you
put the child in crisis now you could
justify that by saying well there's no
Learning Without Pain the question is
what's being offered as a resolution
because if the stance is um only the
identity that opposes so that's that's
like right out of
Milton's Paradise Lost right because
Satan himself is the spirit that opposes
that's his
definition he's nothing but this spirit
that opposes so it's a very good way of
understanding that at a theological
level there's no unity in the spirit
that opposes you can't Rectify an
existential crisis by identifying with
the spirit of that opposes if you
identify with the spirit of that opposes
you end up in Hell metaphysically
speaking well practically speaking for
that matter and perhaps even
theologically speaking so what the hell
is the resolution supposed to be the
there there is none from the outside
there is none but the the way it is sold
is the resolution is you find your true
self you find your your gender identity
it's it's whatever you feel it is
because again it's the the the way so
that that basically puts you at the whim
of your emotions your momentto moment
emotions correct
[Music]